// Status=review
Two configurations of controls are provided for generating and
selecting Tx messages.

Traditional controls (carried over from program WSJT) appear on *Tab
1* and provide six fields for message entry.  Pre-formatted messages
for the standard minimal QSO are generated when you click *Generate
Std Msgs* or when you double-click on an appropriate line of decoded
text.

//.Traditional Message Menu
image::images/traditional-msg-box.png[align="center",alt="Traditional Message Menu"]

* Select the next message to be transmitted (at the start of your next
Tx sequence) by clicking on the circle under *Next*.

* To change to a specified Tx message immediately, click on a
rectangular button (e.g., Tx 3) under the *Now* label.  Changing Tx
messages after a transmission has started reduces the chance of a
correct decode, but in the first 10 s of a Tx period it will probably
succeed.

* Right-clicking on the entry field for message #5 pops up a list of
free-text messages entered on the *Setup | Configuration | Tx Macros*
dialog window.  You can select any of these pre-stored messages with
the left mouse button.

*Tab 2* of the Message Control Panel looks like this:

//.New Message Menu
image::images/new-msg-box.png[align="center",alt="New Message Menu"]

With this setup you will normally follow a top-to-bottom sequence of
transmissions from the left column if you are calling CQ, or the right
column if you are answering a CQ.  Clicking a button puts the
appropriate message in the *Gen Msg* box.  If you are already
transmitting, it changes the Tx message immediately.  You can enter
anything (up to 13 characters) in the *Free Msg* box.  Right-clicking on
this entry field pops up your previously defined list of *Tx Macros*.

IMPORTANT: WIth either of the message-control tabs, the actual message
being transmitted always appears highlighted in yellow in the first
box of the status bar, at bottom left of the main screen.  


