// Status=review
The following buttons appear just under the decoded text windows on
the main screen:

//.Main UI Controls
image::images/main-ui-controls.png[align="left",alt="Main UI Controls"]

* *Log QSO* pops up a confirmation screen pre-filled with known
information about a QSO you have nearly completed.  You can edit or
add to this information before clicking *OK* to log the QSO.  If you
check *Prompt me to log QSO* on the *Setup* menu, the program will pop
up the confirmation screen automatically when you send a 73 or
free-text message.

//.Log QSO Window
image::images/log-qso.png[align="center",alt="Log QSO"]

* *Stop* will stop normal data acquisition in case you want to open
and explore previously recorded audio files.

* *Monitor* restarts normal receive operation.  This button is
highlighted in green when the program is receiving.

* *Erase* clears the right (*Rx frequency*) window. Double-clicking
*Erase* clears both text windows.

* *Decode* tells the program to repeat the decoding procedure at the
Rx frequency (green marker on waterfall), using the most recently
completed sequence of Rx data.  

* *Enable Tx* puts the program into automatic Rx/Tx sequencing mode
and highlights the button in red.  A transmission will start at the
beginning of the selected (odd or even) sequence, or immediately if
appropriate.  A transmission will not be started any later than 24 s 
into a UTC minute.

* *Halt Tx* terminates a transmission in progress and disables
automatic Rx/Tx sequencing.

* *Tune* may be used to switch into Tx mode and generate an
unmodulated carrier at the specified Tx frequency (red marker on
waterfall).  This process may be useful for adjusting an antenna
tuner.  Toggle the button a second time to terminate the *Tune*
process.

